To advance true worship and spread the good news, Jehovah's people must build.
Theocratic building projects strengthen our faith and feed our hope.
How?
Let's see in this episode of Our History in Motion.
In ancient times, Nehemiah was moved to exclaim,
the good hand of my God was upon me.
Yes, against daunting odds, Jehovah provided what was needed at the right time to advance pure worship.
The same has proved true in modern times.
As the significant year 1914 approached,
the Bible students, as we were then called, prepared for an all-out preaching campaign
to publicize the long hope for fulfillment of Bible prophecy.
So in 1909, C.T. Russell moved world headquarters from Pennsylvania to Brooklyn, New York.
Two newly purchased and renovated buildings, renamed Bethel and the Brooklyn Tabernacle,
accommodated the increased workload.
At the time, though, some thought the preaching work would end with the birth of the kingdom in 1914.
Little did they realize how much work remained to be done.
Opposition to the kingdom worked sparked by World War I,
peaked with the imprisonment of eight responsible brothers in 1918.
Combined with the wartime shortages of supplies,
it appeared impossible to continue operations in Brooklyn.
The Brooklyn Tabernacle was sold,
but efforts to sell 124 Columbia Heights failed.
Jehovah had plans for it.
The 1920s saw a renewed zeal for the ministry
and consequently a massive increase in the publication and distribution of books and magazines.
Rather than using commercial printers to produce our literature,
the decision was made to print it ourselves.
This required an expanded presence in Brooklyn.
After outgrowing a small printer-interested building,
then outgrowing another,
construction commenced on a new eight-story factory,
just a few blocks away from the expanded Brooklyn Bethel.
Just over a decade later, during World War II,
Hitler had built his infamous concentration camps
and persecution of our brothers increased around the world.
Despite that, the number of kingdom publishers doubled during the war.
Jehovah knew this was no time to slow down.
In 1940, construction began on a three-story building
at Kingdom Farm in South Lansing, New York.
But what would it be used for?
Only Jehovah knew.
By 1943, the war had made building materials extremely scarce.
But the brothers had already finished construction.
Jehovah wanted it used as a school to train missionaries.
The Watch Tower Bible School of Gilead.
This marked the beginning of a period of astounding growth.
To keep pace with the ever-increasing demand for Bible literature,
in 1955, construction began on a second Brooklyn factory building.
Eventually, the printer complex covered five city blocks.
In a 22-year period, the number of kingdom publishers worldwide tripled.
In 1971, a printer was constructed at Watch Tower Farms in upstate New York,
and has expanded several times over the years to increase its printing capacity.
By the mid-1980s, from Argentina to Zimbabwe,
we expanded our facilities at more than 40 branches around the world.
As stated in the January 1st, 1986 Watch Tower,
there appears to be no end to the modern day expansion.
Jehovah's Organization is building for an eternal future.
Currently, in Africa, 13 branch facilities need to be enlarged or renovated.
Over 50 approved remote translation office projects are being developed.
And in order to keep up with publisher growth,
over five major kingdom hall projects need to be completed every single day.
We are producing more videos, all of which feed our hope.
That means we need more studio space.
Since 2015, studios have been constructed in the United States,
Canada, Britain, South Africa, and most recently,
Australia, where the good news, according to Jesus, is being produced.
And coming soon, the new media center at Ramapo, New York.
We have overwhelming evidence that Jehovah directs his people's building work.
So we can be confident.
The good hand of Jehovah will continue upon us as we build for an eternal future.